datapath: add tail call hooks for custom metrics, bytecounter example (#13191)
cilium-team/cilium: bpf/custom/README.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2021 Authors of Cilium

===================================
Tail Call Hooks for Custom Programs
===================================

The files in this directory implement a sample byte counter program which can
be attached to dedicated hooks in the datapath.

.. note::
    This is a beta feature. Please provide feedback and file a GitHub issue if

>     you experience any problems.

Reviewer: FYI, I think this syntax is specific to Read the Docs. GitHub won't render it: https://gist.github.com/pchaigno/9397bdad9553204f93fee0226d384f1e.

Author: Right, I suspected so but forgot to check, thank you. FYI it is part of the directives [documented](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#attention) and implemented by docutils, which also defines the specifications for RST, but indeed not rendered on GitHub. I'll fix.

Datapath Hooks
==============

Implementation
--------------

When compiled with ``ENABLE_CUSTOM_CALLS`` set, Cilium's datapath contains some

> tail call hooks permitting to insert custom programs in the datapath. These

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 tail call hooks to insert custom programs in the datapath. These
```

custom programs should be particularly careful *not* to interfere with the
logics of the datapath, at the risk of altering or breaking the network
connectivity in the cluster.

Before the tail call happens, the datapath encodes two elements into the ``cb``
field of the socket buffer for the packet:

- The return value for that packet, so that the custom program can return it on
  exit. This is because a tail call is not like a function call, and the custom
  program does not *return* into the core datapath logics. Therefore, the
  custom program must be called as the very last step of the processing of the
  packet, and must preserve the return value selected by the datapath.

> - The identity corresponding to the packet, that is, the Cilium identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remote security identity associated with the packet, that is, the Cilium identity
```

  associated to the sender for the ingress hook, and to the receiver when on
  the egress hook. This identity is not strictly necessary to the custom

>   program, but it prove useful for some use cases. Given that the datapath

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  program, but it proved useful for some use cases. Given that the datapath
```

  already did the work for retrieving the identity for the packet, it just
  passes it down to the custom programs, in case it saves them the trouble to
  extract it a second time.

Limitations
-----------

> - There is currently no hook on the egress path for socket-based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - There is currently no hook on the egress path for socket-level
```

  load-balancing.

Sample Byte Counter Program
============================

> This directory contains a sample byte counter program, to help count how many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory contains a sample byte-counter program, to help count how many
```

Author: Updated elsewhere in this doc and CI test.

           key 0 0 0 0 \
           value pinned /sys/fs/bpf/tc/globals/bytecounter

   The key indicate the hook to use. It is possible to attach the program at
   multiple hooks, although the counter currently makes no distinction and will
   condensate the values collected from all hooks into a single counter. The
   available hooks and their keys are the following:

   - IPv4, ingress: ``key 0 0 0 0``
   - IPv4, egress:  ``key 1 0 0 0``
   - IPv6, ingress: ``key 2 0 0 0``
   - IPv6, egress:  ``key 3 0 0 0``

4. After some traffic has flown, dump the content of the byte counter map to
   read the statistics::

       # bpftool map dump \
           pinned /sys/fs/bpf/tc/globals/bytecounter_maps/bytecount_map

5. When the byte counter is no longer neccessary, it is possible to clean it up
   by deleting the entry in the tail call map, and removing the pinned
   objects::

       # bpftool map delete \
           pinned /sys/fs/bpf/tc/globals/cilium_calls_custom_$(printf '%05d' ${EP}) \
           key 0 0 0 0
       # rm /sys/fs/bpf/tc/globals/custom_prog
       # rm -r /sys/fs/bpf/tc/globals/bytecounter_maps

Using Other Custom Programs

> ===========================

Reviewer 2: nit: Are these instructions substantially different than the above? At a glance they seem very similar and I figure anyone writing additional custom statistics programs would likely just modify this custom example to get where they're going.

Not a big deal, I'd personally probably just skip the instructions below but if you think they should stay then feel free to just mark this comment as resolved.

Author: Makes sense. I kept the section but simplified it and removed all the duplicated instructions (essentially keeping the `make` command with the environment variables to set a different name for the file to include).
